There is nothing concealed
that will not be disclosed,
or hidden that will not be made known.
(Luke 12:2)
How did you know Merta?
- Business contacts.
- You didn't write about him.
I was planning to.
Stop lying. We have witnesses.
You met him at the station
and he killed himself a moment later.
- I told you I was there by coincidence.
- Just like me.
I chat with a man and bam!
He's under the train. You too?
For fuck's sake, find the guy
who filmed us from the next platform!
But you were the one
standing near Merta.
Adrian Bogusz. How did you know him?
I didn't.
- Once again?
- What does it tell us?
- You make sure they kill themselves?
- You nuts?
- You knew they'd die.
- Tell us everything.
- Where did you get it?
- Daniel, Bogusz, Merta: what's the link?
- Not your fucking business.
What shit are you trying to get me into?
You can't take the suspect away
just like that.
We took over the investigation
half an hour ago.
Ask your superiors. Thank you.
You can go.
Weronika is at the Central Station.
- I tried to take her home but failed.
- What's wrong?
Your nephew went missing.
She's looking for him there.
- Missing?
- I'm not sure.
I couldn't understand what she said.
She's in a terrible state.
She needs help.
starring
music by
photography by
written by
directed by
THE PACT
EPISODE 5: THE DISCOVERY
Hi, Ewa.
Look, we need to talk.
No, calm down.
We don't know anything yet
but we will find him.
Piotr, let's go and see her.
What happened? Can you explain it to me?
I don't know what happened.
He went to the toilet and disappeared.
- You were to watch over him.
- I'm sorry.
- It's not her fault.
- And you promised he'd be safe.
Yes, who's that?
I want to talk to him.
All right but I want to talk to him,
you hear me?
What's going on?
He's fine, we just have to wait.
Wait?
Fuck you.
- Who do you want to call?
- The police.
Please, don't.
Don't do it.
I promise I'll find him.
Ewa, take a look, please.
Do you recognise anyone?
No.
Please, take a look.
This is all we've got.
I don't know anyone.
You know something, don't you?
Sorry?
Did you find anything?
Where?
On the pen drive from the notary.
- We couldn't open it.
- You're lying.
It's not the best moment, believe me.
Dad! Dad!
Hold on.
Where's the photo?
Look.
- It's the same.
- You know where it was taken?
The village of Krzyże in Mazury.
Here?
This is it.
It was taken eight months ago.
They must have rebuilt it.
Let's go there.
...the new tapping scandal,
into which the Prosecutor's Office
has launched an investigation.
The recorded meetings were attended
by Minister of Economy Dariusz Skalski.
What's going on?
...Pek-War's owners, Adrian Bogusz
and Tomasz Nawrot, offered him a bribe.
It will be better this way.
At least for now.
I shouldn't have dragged you into this.
Take care of yourself.
Leave it at that.
Those people abduct children
and kill them.
I forbid you, do you understand?
They abducted Kuba before my very eyes.
- You can't protect...
- I know! Just help me!
Those people are powerful.
Fine. Tomorrow, quietly,
I'll implement the necessary procedures.
But on one condition: you let it go.
It's here.
- Are we going in?
- Hold on.
Look, I found something.
In 1994, the hut was bought
by Tomasz Nawrot.
Nawrot?
Has he been the owner all this time?
No. In 1996, he transferred it
to a man named Kowalski.
But it's some bullshit.
Ewa!
I'll call you
when we find anything. Bye.
What the fuck...?
There's a safe.
Where did you get this key?
Daniel's study.
- Yes?
- What's going on?
Don't take anything with you.
It might have a tracking device.
Connect it to your laptop.
- It won't open.
- Wait a sec. I'll connect with you.
I'm copying it all onto my computer.
- What are these?
- Documents. Quite a lot.
Dad!
- Turn it off.
- Wait.
Let me go! Fuck!
Fuck off, will you?
Let's get out of here.
Stop the car, please.
Stop the car!
Good Friday
Are you sure
the Prime Minister wanted to see me now?
Yes. He should be here soon.
Minister Skalski unwilling to quit
THE PM'S CONFERENCE IN SEJM
I'm certain that Minister Skalski
crossed certain boundaries.
Our expectations of someone
who represents the government
should be heightened.
Let's wait for all the circumstances
to be explained.
But one thing is clear to me.
A person involved in a bribery scandal
must not hold any position in my Cabinet.
There are standards I'll adhere to
as long as I'm the Prime Minister.
Certainly, the scandal doesn't affect
my high appraisal
of Minister Skalski's work to date.
Yet, given the current situation,
he can't possibly continue his mission.
Soon, I'll give you the name
of the new minister.
- Goodbye.
Everyone from Konary is here.
Only Nawrot is missing.
Maybe he held the camera.
- Is Elżbieta there with you?
- No.
But she left me a colleague of hers.
Don't worry, I'm safe.
Get some rest. We've got them. Bye.
Let me go! Fuck!
Thank you for accepting my invitation.
Why don't you take a seat?
And?
Who do you work for?
Thank you for the offer
but I'm not going to take it.
You're an excellent negotiator.
We are not negotiating.
Everything has its price, as they say.
Now I understand it.
I offended you with too low a fee.
Not everything has its price.
I don't think you realise...
This is my final answer.
And please pass it to your employers.
Whoever they are.
Sir, I haven't told you everything.
You don't realise what opportunities...
Good day!
Monika, come! Quick!
...you become a silent partner.
Such a guarantee is good enough for...
- What's he doing?
- Defending Skalski.
- What money are we talking about?
- If we sign the deal with the Chinese...
Let's say this...
And then twenty percent of the profit.
Gentlemen, this sounds amazing
but I'm a State official.
What's it got to do with anything?
Because I'll start striking such deals
when I retire.
Shame. Are you sure?
Yes, and let's finish this conversation.
What the hell is this?
How about some dessert, honest sir?
All right. I'm in.
Interesting... Pity it means so little.
Everyone can present
‘their own' recording now.
- But the original audio is this one.
- Because you say so?
Because I was there.
And that's what an expert opinion says.
To be precise,
two independent opinions that I ordered.
Kurier should be ordering the third one.
They might do something useful for once.
What difference does it make to you?
You did offer a bribe to the Minister.
That's true. But since the Minister
turned out to be extremely honest,
why should I drag him to the bottom?
Believe me: the truth about who pulls
the strings here is more interesting.
Enough of the conspiracy of silence.
Time to ring the curtain up.
Let's get the party started.
That's fucking lovely. Come on.
- Don't tell them anything.
- Who are they?
The police but I don't know
whose side they're on.
What do you want?
- Ms Grodecka, we'd like to talk to you.
- What about?
- Are you her attorney?
- The CBI took over the case, got it?
We're here about your son.
Please come with us to the station.
- She won't go.
- We have a summons.
Great but she won't go anywhere.
Who put you on this case anyway?
Ewa!
I'll follow you.
It's an absolute disgrace
to this newspaper. And to you.
I should've fired Andrzej and all of you
a fucking year ago!
- Excuse me...
- No time for excuses!
- Your accusations are unjustified.
- You bloody joking?
I'm just doing my job!
My source seemed reliable.
- Give me some time.
- For what?
I have to trace him.
- You're not in touch with him?
- I am.
Don't sit here. Go and find him!
Monika, I want to talk to you
in private.
Jurek. Be quiet, OK?
Hello?
Hi, Andrzej? We have to meet.
Your son went missing
on the train from Kraków to Warsaw.
Why didn't you report that?
It hasn't been twenty-four hours.
Where were you last night?
I was looking for my son.
Together with the suspect
in the death of Grzegorz Merta.
I know nothing about it.
Just like you know nothing
about the death of Adrian Bogusz.
How is it related to my missing son?
Let's stop this childish conversation.
I'll speak in the presence of my lawyer.
You'd like to find your son,
wouldn't you?
Then I think you should start
collaborating with us.
How?
You may persuade Mr Grodecki
to, let's say, cooperate.
And we'll start looking for your son
in double-quick time.
Kidnappers are rather impatient people.
But we have access to everything.
Including the staff of the train
your son took.
I don't get it: are you concerned
for the safety of my son or Mr Grodecki?
What did you tell them?
- What's up?
- The reflection of the cameraman.
We've got him.
And who is it?
Weronika?
Nawrot. He's here.
Calm down. You said you had security.
What's going on? Are you there? Hello?
- They're coming after me.
- Run, you hear me?!
Hello? Piotr?
What's going on? You hear me?
Hello?
Piotr, what's going on?
What? How?
Yes, take care of her.
Let's meet at the railway station.
They can be tracking us down.
All right.
Bye.
Operating theatre, now.
Please wait here. You can't come inside.
New message from Weronika
They're following me.
Meet me in Grzybowski Square.
Go on.
That manager...
I met him at the hotel on Tuesday.
Next day, we went to the bank.
He took the audio out of a deposit box
and gave it to me.
I never saw him again.
And now this Nawrot's show...
What's this all about?
When did you get the photos?
They were on my desk on Monday morning.
- Kowalik?
- I don't know.
- We need to check out that manager.
- How?
Go to his employer and ask him out.
It worked once,
it's going to work this time.
And you?
I'll meet Nawrot.
Haven't you had enough?
Hold on...
cast
English subtitles by Magdalena Cedro